SQL Movie-Rating Query Exercises

Q1
Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg.

SELECT title
FROM Movie
WHERE director = 'Steven Spielberg'

Q2
Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and sort them in increasing order.

SELECT distinct year
FROM Movie, Rating
WHERE (Movie.mID = Rating.mID) and (stars>=4)
ORDER BY year

Q3
Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings.

SELECT distinct title
FROM Movie
WHERE mID not in (select Movie.mID from Movie, Rating where Movie.mID = Rating.mID)

Q4
Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of all reviewers who have ratings with a NULL value for the date.

SELECT name
FROM Reviewer, Rating
where Reviewer.rID = Rating.rID and ratingDate is null

Q5
0/1 points (graded)
Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format: reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. Also, sort the data, first by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of stars.

select name, title, stars, ratingDate
from Reviewer, Rating, Movie
where Reviewer.rID = Rating.rID and Rating.mID = Movie.mID
order by name, title, stars

Q6
0/1 points (graded)
For all cases where the same reviewer rated the same movie twice and gave it a higher rating the second time, return the reviewer's name and the title of the movie.

select first.name, first.title
from (select name, title, stars, ratingDate
from Reviewer, Rating, Movie
where Reviewer.rID = Rating.rID and Rating.mID = Movie.mID) as first, (select name, title, stars, ratingDate
from Reviewer, Rating, Movie
where Reviewer.rID = Rating.rID and Rating.mID = Movie.mID) as second
where first.name = second.name and first.title = second.title and first.ratingDate < second.ratingDate and first.stars < second.stars

Q7
0/1 points (graded)
For each movie that has at least one rating, find the highest number of stars that movie received. Return the movie title and number of stars. Sort by movie title.

select title, maxscore
from Movie, (select mID, max(stars) as maxscore
from Rating
group by mID
order by mID) as R
where Movie.mID = R.mID
order by title

Q8
0/1 points (graded)
For each movie, return the title and the 'rating spread', that is, the difference between highest and lowest ratings given to that movie. Sort by rating spread from highest to lowest, then by movie title.

select title, maxscore-minscore as spread
from Movie, (select mID, max(stars) as maxscore, min(stars) as minscore
from Rating
group by mID
order by mID) as R
where Movie.mID = R.mID
order by spread desc, title

Q9
0/1 points (graded)
Find the difference between the average rating of movies released before 1980 and the average rating of movies released after 1980. (Make sure to calculate the average rating for each movie, then the average of those averages for movies before 1980 and movies after. Don't just calculate the overall average rating before and after 1980.)

select avg(before.avg)-avg(after.avg)
from (select avg(stars) as avg
from Movie inner join Rating using(mID)
where year < 1980
group by mID) as before,
(select avg(stars) as avg
from Movie inner join Rating using(mID)
where year > 1980
group by mID) as after
